          WWWOFFLE - World Wide Web Offline Explorer - Version 2.7
          ========================================================


The WWWOFFLE programs simplify World Wide Web browsing from computers that use
intermittent (dial-up) connections to the internet.

Description
-----------

The WWWOFFLE server is a proxy web server with special features for use with
dial-up internet links.  This means that it is possible to browse web pages and
read them without having to remain connected.

Basic Features
    - Caching of HTTP, FTP and finger protocols.
    - Allows the 'GET', 'HEAD', 'POST' and 'PUT' HTTP methods.
    - Interactive or command line control of online/offline/autodial status.
    - Highly configurable.
    - Low maintenance, start/stop and online/offline status can be automated.

While Online
    - Caching of pages that are viewed for later review.
    - Conditional fetching to only get pages that have changed.
        - Based on expiration date, time since last fetched or once per session.
    - Non cached support for SSL (Secure Socket Layer e.g. https).
    - Can be used with one or more external proxies based on web page.
    - Control which pages cannot be accessed.
        - Allow replacement of blocked pages.
    - Control which pages are not to be stored in the cache.
    - Requests compressed pages from web servers (compile time option).

While Offline
    - Can be configured to use dial-on-demand for pages that are not cached.
    - Selection of pages to download next time online
        - Using normal browser to follow links.
        - Command line interface to select pages for downloading.
    - Control which pages can be requested when offline.
    - Provides non-cached access to intranet servers.

Automated Download
    - Downloading of specified pages non-interactively.
    - Options to automatically fetch objects in requested pages
        - Understands various types of pages
            - HTML 4.0, Java classes, VRML (partial), XML (partial).
        - Options to fetch different classes of objects
            - Images, Stylesheets, Frames, Scripts, Java or other objects.
        - Option to not fetch webbug images (images of 1 pixel square).
    - Automatically follows links for pages that have been moved.
    - Can monitor pages at regular intervals to fetch those that have changed.
    - Recursive fetching
        - To specified depth.
        - On any host or limited to same server or same directory.
        - Chosen from command line or from browser.
        - Control over which links can be fetched recursively.

Convenience
    - Optional information footer on HTML pages showing date cached and options.
    - Options to modify HTML pages
        - Remove scripts.
        - Remove Java applets.
        - Remove stylesheets.
        - Remove shockwave flash animations.
        - Indicate cached and uncached links.
        - Remove the blink tag.
        - Remove refresh tags.
        - Remove links to pages that are in the DontGet list.
        - Remove inline frames (iframes) that are in the DontGet list.
        - Replace images that are in the DontGet list.
        - Replace webbug images (images of 1 pixel square).
        - Demoronise HTML character sets.
        - Stop animated GIFs.
    - Provides information about cached pages
        - Headers, raw and modified.
        - Contents, images, links etc.
        - Source code unmodified by WWWOFFLE.
    - Automatic proxy configuration for Netscape.
    - Searchable cache with the addition of the ht://Dig, mnoGoSearch
      (UdmSearch) or Namazu programs.
    - Built in simple web-server for local pages.
        - Allows CGI scripts
    - Timeouts to stop proxy lockups
        - DNS name lookups.
        - Remote server connection.
        - Data transfer.
    - Continue or stop downloads interrupted by client.
        - Based on file size of fraction downloaded.
    - Purging of pages from cache
        - Based on URL matching.
        - To keep the cache size below a specified limit.
        - To keep the free disk space above a specified limit.
        - Interactive or command line control.
        - Compression of cached pages based on age.
    - Provides compressed pages to web browser (compile time option).

Indexes
    - Multiple indexes of pages stored in cache
        - Servers for each protocol (http, ftp ...).
        - Pages on each server.
        - Pages waiting to be fetched.
        - Pages requested last time offline.
        - Pages fetched last time online.
        - Pages monitored on a regular basis.
    - Configurable indexes
        - Sorted by name, date, server domain name, type of file.
        - Options to delete, refresh or monitor pages.
        - Selection of complete list of pages or hide un-interesting pages.

Security
    - Works with pages that require basic username/password authentication.
    - Automates proxy authentication for external proxies that require it.
    - Control over access to the proxy
        - Defaults to local host access only.
        - Host access configured by hostname or IP address.
        - Optional proxy authentication for user level access control.
    - Optional password control for proxy management functions.
    - Can censor incoming and outgoing HTTP headers to maintain user privacy.

Configuration
    - All options controlled using a configuration file.
    - Interactive web page to allow editing of the configuration file.
    - User customisable error and information pages.


Configuring A Web Browser
-------------------------

To use the WWWOFFLE programs, requires that your web browser is set up to use it
as a proxy.  The proxy hostname will be 'localhost' (or the name of the host
that wwwoffled is running on), and the port number will be the one that is used
by wwwoffled (default 8080).

Manual Configuration

    Netscape V1:
        In the Options->Preferences dialog window, enter localhost as the http
        and ftp proxies and 8080 as the port numbers.

    Netscape V2,3:
        In the Options->Preferences dialog window under the Proxies tab select
        the "Manual Proxy Configuration" option and enter localhost as the http
        and ftp proxies and 8080 as the port numbers.

    Netscape V4:
        In the Edit->Preferences dialog window select Advanced and then Proxies,
        select the "Manual Proxy Configuration" option and enter localhost as
        the http and ftp proxies and 8080 as the port numbers.

    Mosaic V2.6, Lynx, Arena, Emacs-W3, Chimera:
        Set the environment variables http_proxy and ftp_proxy to
        http://localhost:8080/

Automatic Configuration

    Netscape 2+:
        Instead of selecting the "Manual Proxy Configuration" option as described
        above, select the "Automatic Proxy Configuration" option and enter
        http://localhost:8080/wwwoffle.pac in the box.

You will also need to disable the caching that the web browser performs itself
between sessions to get the best out of the program.

Depending on which browser you use and which version, it is possible to request
pages to be refreshed while offline.  This is done using the 'reload' or
'refresh' button or key on the browser.  On many browsers, there are two ways of
doing this, one forces the proxy to reload the page, and this is the one that
will cause the page to be refreshed.

The latest browser compatibility information is available at:
http://www.gedanken.demon.co.uk/wwwoffle/version-2.7/browser.html


Welcome Page
------------

There is a welcome page at URL 'http://localhost:8080/' that gives a very brief
description of the program and has links to the index pages, interactive control
page and the WWWOFFLE internet home pages.

The most important places to get information about WWWOFFLE are the WWWOFFLE
homepage 'http://www.gedanken.demon.co.uk/wwwoffle/' which has information about
WWWOFFLE in general.  Or even better the WWWOFFLE version-2.7 user page
'http://www.gedanken.demon.co.uk/wwwoffle/version-2.7/user.html' which has more
information about this version of WWWOFFLE.


Index Of Cached Files
---------------------

To get the index of cached files, use the URL 'http://localhost:8080/index/'.
There are sufficient links on each of the index pages to allow easy navigation.

The indexes provides several levels of information:
   A list of the requests in the outgoing directory.
   A list of the files fetched the last time that the program was online.
      And for the previous 5 times before that.
   A list of the files requested the last time that the program was offline.
      And for the previous 5 times before that.
   A list of the files that are being monitored.
   A list of all hosts for each of the protocols (http,ftp etc.).
      A list of all of the files on a particular host.

These indexes can be sorted in a number of ways:
   No sorting (directory order on disk).
   By time of last modification (update).
   By time of last access.
   By date of last update with markers for each day.
   Alphabetically.
   By file extension.
   Random.

For each of the pages that are cached there are options to delete the page,
refresh it, select the interactive refresh page with the URL already filled in
or add the page to the list that is monitored regularly.

It is also possible to specify in the configuration file what URLs are not to be
listed in the indexes.


Interactive Refresh Page
------------------------

Pages can be specified by using whatever method is provided by the browser that
is used or as an alternative there is an interactive refresh page.  This allows
the user to enter a URL and then fetch it if it is not currently cached or
refresh it if it is in the cache.  There is also the option here to recursively
fetch the pages that are linked to by the page that is specified.  This
recursive fetching can be limited to pages from the same host, narrowed down to
links in the same directory (or subdirectory) or widened to fetch pages from any
web server.  This functionality is also provided in the 'wwwoffle' command line
program.


Monitoring Web-Pages
--------------------

Pages can be specified that are to be checked at regular intervals.  This can
either be every time that WWWOFFLE is online or at user specifiable times.  The
page will be monitored when the four specified conditions are all met:
A month of the year that it can be fetched in (can be set to all months).
A day of the month that the page can be fetched on (can be set to all days).
A day of the week that the page can be fetched on (can be set to all days).
An hour of the day that the page should be fetched after (can be more than one).

For example to get a URL every Saturday morning, use the following:

Month of year: all
Day of Month : all
Day of week  : Saturday
Hour of day  : 0 (24hr clock)


Interactive Control Page
------------------------

The behaviour and mode of operation of the WWWOFFLE daemon can be controlled from
an interactive control page at 'http://localhost:8080/control/'.  This has a
number of buttons that change the mode of the proxy server.  These provide the
same functionality as the 'wwwoffle' command line program.  To provide security,
this page can be password protected.  There is also the facility to delete pages
from the cache or from the spooled outgoing requests directory.


Interactive Configuration File Editing Page
-------------------------------------------

The interactive configuration file editing page allows the configuration file
wwwoffle.conf to be edited.  This facility can be reached via the configuration
editing page 'http://localhost:8080/configuration/'.  Each item in the
configuration file has a separate web-page with a form in it that lists the
current entries in the configuration file and allows each entry to be edited
individually.  When an entry has been updated, the configuration file needs to
be re-read.


Searching the Cache
-------------------

The three web indexing programs ht://Dig, mnoGoSearch (UdmSearch) or Namazu can
be used to create an index of the pages in the WWWOFFLE cache for later
searching.

For ht://Dig version 3.1.0b4 or later is required, it can be found at
http://htdig.sdsu.edu/.

For mnoGoSearch (previously called UdmSearch) version 3.1.0 or later is
required, it can be found at http://mnogosearch.org/.

For Namazu version 2.0.0 or later is required, it can be found at
http://www.namazu.org/, also required is mknmz-wwwoffle which can be found at
http://www.naney.org/comp/distrib/mknmz-wwwoffle/.

The search forms for these programs are 'http://localhost:8080/search/htdig/',
'http://localhost:8080/search/mnogosearch/' and
'http://localhost:8080/search/namazu/'.  These allow the search part of the
programs to be run to find the cached web-pages that you want.

For more information about configuring these programs to work with WWWOFFLE you
should read the file README.htdig, README.mnogosearch or README.namazu.


Built-In Web-Server
-------------------

Any URLs to WWWOFFLE on port 8080 that refer to files in the directory '/' refer
to the files that are stored in the 'html' subdirectory.  This directory also
contains the message templates that WWWOFFLE uses to generate the internal web
pages.  When a file is requested from either of these locations it is first
looked for in the language specific sub-directory specified in the browser's
request header.  If it is not found in that location then it is looked for in
the directory named 'default' which by default is a symbolic link to the English
language pages, but can be changed.  If it is not found in this location then it
is looked for in the English language directory (since that will have a full set
of pages).

Any URLs that refer to files in the directory '/local/' are taken from the files
in the 'local' sub-directory of the spool directory if they exist.  If they do
not exist then they are searched for in the language subdirectories of the
'html' directory as described above.  This allows for trivial web-pages to be
provided without a separate web-server.  CGI scripts are available but disabled
by the default configuration file.  The MIME type used for these files are those
that are specified in the configuration file.

Important: The local web-page server will follow symbolic links, but will only
           allow access to files that are world readable.  See the FAQ for
           security issues.


Deleting Requests
-----------------

If no password is used for the control pages then it is possible for anybody to
delete requests that are recorded.  If a password is assigned then users that
know this password can delete any request (or cached file or other thing).
Individual users that do not know the password can delete pages that they have
requested provided that they do it immediately that the "Will Get" page appears,
the "Cancel" button on here has a once-only password that will delete that
request.


Backup Copies of Pages
----------------------

When a page is fetched while online a remote server error will overwrite any
existing web page.  In this case a backup copy of the page is made so that when
the error message has been read while offline the backup copy is placed back
into the cache.  This is automatic for all cases of files that have remote
server errors (and that do not use external proxies), no user intervention is
required.


Lock Files
----------

When one WWWOFFLE process is downloading a file any other WWWOFFLE process that
tries to read that file will not be able to until the first one has finished.
This removes the problem of an incomplete page being displayed in the second
browser, or a second copy of the page being fetched.  If the lock file is not
removed by the first process within a timeout period then the second process
will produce an error message indicating the problem.

This is now a configurable option, the default condition is that lock files are
not used.


Spool Directory Layout
----------------------

In the spool directory there is a directory for each of the network protocols
that are handled.  In this directory there is a directory for each hostname that
has been contacted and has pages cached.  These directories have the name of the
host.  In each of these directories, there is an entry for each of the pages
that are cached, generated using a hashing function to give a constant length.
The entry consists of two files, one prefixed with 'D' that contains the data
and one prefixed with 'U' that contains the URL.

The outgoing directory is a single directory that all of the pending requests
are contained in, the format is the same with two files for each, but using 'O'
for the file containing the request instead of 'D' and one prefixed with 'U'
that contains the URL.

The lasttime (and prevtime*) directories are a single directory that contains an
entry for each of the files that were fetched the last time that the program was
online.  Each entry consists of two files, one prefixed with 'D' that is a
hard-link to the real file and one prefixed with 'U' that contains the URL.

The lastout (and prevtime*) directories are a single directory that contains an
entry for each of the files that were requested the last time that the program
was offline.  Each entry consists of two files, one prefixed with 'D' that is a
hard-link to the real file and one prefixed with 'U' that contains the URL.

The monitor directory is a single directory that all of the regularly monitored
requests are contained in, the format is the same as the outgoing directory with
two files for each, using 'O' and 'U' prefixes.  There is also a file with an
'M' prefix that contains the information about when to monitor the URL.


The Programs and Configuration File
-----------------------------------

There are two programs that make up this utility, with three distinct functions.

wwwoffle  - A program to interact with and control the HTTP proxy daemon.

wwwoffled - A daemon process that acts as an HTTP proxy.
wwwoffles - A server that actually does the fetching of the web pages.

The wwwoffles function is combined with the wwwoffled function into the
wwwoffled program from version 1.1 onwards.  This is to simplify the procedure
of starting servers, and allow for future improvements.

The configuration file, called wwwoffle.conf by default contains all of the
parameters that are used to control the way the wwwoffled and wwwoffles
functions work.  The default installation location for this file is in the
directory /etc.


WWWOFFLE - User control program
-------------------------------

The control program (wwwoffle) is used to control the action of the daemon
program (wwwoffled), or to request pages that are not in the cache.

The daemon program needs to know if the system is online or offline, when to
fetch the pages that have been previously requested and when to purge the cache
of old pages.


The first mode of operation is for controlling the daemon process.  These are the
functions that are also available on the interactive control page (except kill).

wwwoffle -online        Indicates to the daemon that the system is online.

wwwoffle -autodial      Indicates to the daemon that the system is in autodial
                        mode, this will use cached pages if they exist and use
                        the network as last resort, for dial-on-demand systems.

wwwoffle -offline       Indicates to the daemon that the system is offline.

wwwoffle -fetch         Commands the daemon to fetch the pages that were
                        requested by browsers while the system was offline.
                        wwwoffle exits when the fetching is complete.
                        (This requires the daemon to be told it is online).

wwwoffle -config        Cause the configuration file for the daemon process to be
                        re-read.  The config file can also be re-read by sending
                        a HUP signal to the wwwoffled process.

wwwoffle -purge         Commands the daemon to purge from the cache the pages
                        that are older than the number of days specified in the
                        configuration file, using modification or access
                        time. Or if a maximum size is specified then delete the
                        oldest pages until the maximum size is not exceeded.

wwwoffle -status        Request from the wwwoffled proxy server the current
                        status of the program.  The online or offline mode, the
                        fetch and purge statuses, the number of current
                        processes and their PIDs are displayed.

wwwoffle -kill          Causes the daemon to exit cleanly at a convenient point.


The second mode of operation is to specify URLs to get.

wwwoffle <URL> .. <URL> Specifies to the daemon URLs that must be fetched.
                        If online then it is got immediately, else the request
                        is stored for a later fetch.

wwwoffle <filename> ... The specified HTML file is be read and all of the links
                        in it used as if they had been specified on the command
                        line.

wwwoffle -F             Force the wwwoffle server to refresh the URL.
                        (Or fetch it if not cached.)

wwwoffle -g[Sisfo]      Specifies that the URLs when fetched are to be parsed
                        for Stylesheets (s), images (i), scripts (s), frames (f)
                        or objects (o) and these are also to be fetched.

wwwoffle -r[<depth>]    Specifies that the URL when fetched is to have the links
                        followed and these pages also fetched (to a depth
                        specified by the optional depth parameter, default 1).
                        Only links on the same server are to be fetched.

wwwoffle -R[<depth>]    This is the same as the '-r' option except that all of
                        the links are to be followed, even those to other
                        servers.

wwwoffle -d[<depth>]    This is the same as the '-r' option except that links
                        are only followed if they are in the same directory or a
                        sub-directory.


The third mode of operation is to get a URL from the cache.

wwwoffle <URL>          Specifies the URL to get.

wwwoffle -o             Get the URL and output it on the standard output.
                        (Or request it if not already cached.)

wwwoffle -O             Get the URL and output it on the standard output
                        including the HTTP headers.
                        (Or request it if not already cached.)


The last mode of operation is to provide help in using the other modes.

wwwoffle -h             Gives help about the command line options.


With any of the first three modes of operation the WWWOFFLE server can be
specified in one of three different ways.

wwwoffle -c <config-file>
                        Can be used to specify the configuration file that
                        contains the port numbers, server hostname (the first
                        entry in the LocalHost section) and the password (if
                        required for the first mode of operation).  If there is
                        a password then this is the only way to specify it.

wwwoffle -p <host>[:<port>]
                        Can be used to specify the hostname and port number that
                        the daemon program listens to for control messages (first
                        mode) or proxy connections (second and third modes).

WWWOFFLE_PROXY          An environment variable that can be used to specify
                        either the argument to the -c option (must be the full
                        pathname) or the argument to the -p option.  (In this
                        case two ports can be specified, the first for the proxy
                        connection, the second for the control connection
                        e.g. 'localhost:8080:8081' or 'localhost:8080'.)


WWWOFFLED - Daemon program
--------------------------

The daemon program (wwwoffled) runs as an HTTP proxy and also accepts
connections from the control program (wwwoffle).

The daemon program needs to maintain the current state of the system, online or
offline, as well as the other parameters in the configuration file.

As HTTP proxy requests come in, the program forks a copy of itself (the
wwwoffles function) to handle the requests.  The server program can also be
forked in response to the wwwoffle program requesting pages to be fetched.


wwwoffled -c <config-file>      Starts the daemon with the named configuration
                                file.

wwwoffled -d [level]            Starts the daemon in debugging mode, i.e it does
                                not detach from the terminal and uses standard
                                error for the log messages.  The optional
                                numeric level (0 for none to 5 for all or 6 for
                                more) specifies the level of error messages for
                                standard error, if not specified then use
                                log-level from the config file.

wwwoffled -f                    Start the daemon in debugging mode (implies -d)
                                and when the first HTTP request comes in handle
                                it without creating a child process and then
                                exit.

wwwoffled -p                    Print the pid of the daemon on standard out
                                before detaching from the terminal.

wwwoffled -h                    Gives help about the command line options.


There are a number of error and informational messages that are generated by the
program as it runs.  By default (in the config file) these go to syslog, by
using the -d flag the daemon does not detach from the terminal and the errors
are also on standard error.

By using the run-uid and run-gid options in the config file, it is possible to
change the user id and group id that the program runs as.  This will require
that the program is started by root and that the specified user has read/write
access to the spool directory.


WWWOFFLES - Server program
--------------------------

The server (wwwoffles) starts by being forked from the daemon (wwwoffled) in one
of three different modes.

Real  - When the system is online and acting as a proxy for a browser.
        All requests for web pages are handled by forking a new server which
        will connect to the remote host and fetch the page.  This page is then
        stored in the cache as well as being returned to the browser.  If the
        page is already in the cache then the remote server is asked for a newer
        page if one exists, else the cache one is used.

SpoolOrReal - When the system is in autodial mode and we have not decided if we
        will go for Spool or Real mode.  Select Spool mode if already cached and
        Real mode otherwise as a last resort.

Fetch - When the system is online and fetching pages that have been requested.
        All web page requests in the outgoing directory are fetched by the
        server connecting to the remote host to get the page.  This page is then
        stored in the cache, there is no browser active.  If the page has been
        moved then the link is followed and that one fetched.

Spool - When the system is offline and acting as a proxy for a browser.
        All requests for web pages are handled by forking a server that will
        either return a cached page or store the request.  If the page is
        cached, it is returned to the browser, else a dummy page is returned
        (and stored in the cache), and the outgoing request is stored.
        If the cached page refers to a page that failed to be downloaded then it
        will be deleted from the cache.

Depending on the existence of files in the spool and other conditions, the mode
can be changed to one of several other modes.

RealNoCache - For requests for pages on the server machine or those specified
        not to be cached in the configuration file.

RealRefresh - Used by the refresh button on the index or the wwwoffle program
        to re-fetch a page while the system is online.

RealNoPassword - Used when a password was provided and two copies of the page
        are required, one with and one without the password.

FetchNoPassword - Used when a password was provided and two copies of the page
        are required, one with and one without the password.

SpoolGet - Used when the page does not exist in the cache so a request needs to
        be stored for it in the outgoing directory.

SpoolRefresh - Used when the refresh button on the index or the wwwoffle program
        are used, the existing spooled page (if there is one) is not
        overwritten, but a request is stored.

SpoolPragma - Used when the browser requests the cache to refresh the page
        using the 'Pragma: no-cache' header, the existing spooled page (if there
        is one) is not overwritten, but a request is stored.

SpoolInternal - Used when the program is generating a web-page internally or is
        spooling a web-page with modifications.  This create a temporary file and
        can put the correct Content-Length header on by measuring the size.


WWWOFFLE-TOOLS - Cache maintenance program
------------------------------------------

This is a quick hack program that I wrote to allow you to list the contents of
the cache or move files around in it.

All of the programs should be invoked from the spool directory.

wwwoffle-rm     - Delete the URL that is specified on the command line.
                  To delete all URLs from a host it is easier to use
                  'rm -r http/foo' than use this.

wwwoffle-mv     - To rename a host directory in the spool to another name.
                  Because the URL is encoded in the filename just renaming the
                  directory will not work.  Instead of 'mv http/foo http/bar'
                  use 'wwwoffle-mv http/foo http/bar'.

wwwoffle-ls     - To list the files in the directory in the style of 'ls -l'.
                  For example use 'wwwoffle-ls http/foo' to list the URLs cached
                  in the directory http/foo.

wwwoffle-read   - Read data directly from the cache for the URL named on the
                  command line and output it on stdout.

wwwoffle-write  - Write data directly to the cache for the URL named on the
                  command line from stdin.  Note this requires a HTTP header to
                  be included first or browsers may get confused.
                  (echo "HTTP/1.0 200 OK" ; echo "" ; cat bar.html ) | \
                  wwwoffle-write http://www.foo/bar.html

wwwoffle-hash   - Print WWWOFFLE's encoding of the submitted URL. This is
                  useful for scripts working on the WWWOFFLE cache.

All of the programs are the same executable and the name of the file determines
the function.  The wwwoffle-tools executable can also be used with a command
line parameter, for example 'wwwoffle-ls' is the same as 'wwwoffle-tools -ls'.

This program also accepts the '-c <config-file>' option and uses the
'WWWOFFLE_PROXY' environment variable so that the wwwoffle-write program uses
the correct permissions and uid/gid.

These are basically hacks and should not be considered as fully featured and
fully debugged programs.


UNCOMPRESS-CACHE - Cache uncompression program
----------------------------------------------

This is another quick hack program that will uncompress the whole of the
WWWOFFLE cache if the compression option has been chosen.


audit-usage.pl - Perl script to check log files
-----------------------------------------------

The audit-usage.pl script can be used to get audit information from the output
of the wwwoffled program.

If wwwoffled is started as

wwwoffled -c /etc/wwwoffle.conf -d 4

Then on the standard error output will be generated information about the
program as it is run.  The debug level needs to be 4 so that the URL information
is output.

If this is captured into a log file then it can be analysed by the
audit-usage.pl program.  When run this will tell the host that the connection is
made from and the URL that is requested.  It also includes the timestamp
information and connections to the WWWOFFLE control connection.


Test Programs
-------------

In the testprogs directory are two test programs that can be compiled if
required.  They are not needed for WWWOFFLE to work, but if you are customising
the information pages for WWWOFFLE to use or trying to debug the HTML parser
then they will be of use.

These are even more hacks than the wwwoffle-tools programs, use at your own risk.


Author and Copyright
--------------------

The two programs wwwoffle and wwwoffled were written by Andrew M. Bishop in
1996,97,98,99,2000,01 and are copyright Andrew M. Bishop 1996,97,98,99,2000,01.

The programs update-cache, endian-cache and the programs known as wwwoffle-tools
were written by Andrew M. Bishop in 1997,98,99,2000,01 and are copyright Andrew
M. Bishop 1997,98,99,2000,01.

The Perl scripts update-config.pl and audit-usage.pl were written by Andrew
M. Bishop in 1998,99,2000,01 and are copyright Andrew M. Bishop 1998,99,2000,01.

They can be freely distributed according to the terms of the GNU General Public
License (see the file `COPYING').

If you wish to submit bug reports or other comments about the programs then
email the author amb@gedanken.demon.co.uk and put WWWOFFLE in the subject line.


Ht://Dig
- - - -

The htdig package is copyrighted by Andrew Scherpbier. The icons in the
html/search/htdig directory come from htdig as does the search form
html/search/htdig/search.html and configuration files in search/htdig/conf/*
(with modifications by myself).


mnoGoSearch (UdmSearch)
- - - - - - - - - - - -

The mnoGoSearch package is copyrighted by Lavtech.Com Corp and released under
the GPL.  The mnoGoSearch icon in the html/search/mnogosearch directory comes
from mnoGoSearch as does the search form html/search/mnogosearch/search.html and
configuration files in search/mnogosearch/conf/* (with modifications by myself).


Namazu
- - -

The Namazu package is copyrighted by the Namazu Project and mknmz-wwwoffle is
copyrighted by WATANABE Yoshimasa, both programs are released under the GPL.
The configuration files in search/namazu/conf/* come from Namazu (with
modifications by myself).


With Source Code Contributions From
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Yannick Versley <sa6z225@public.uni-hamburg.de>
        Initial syslog code (much rewritten before inclusion).

Axel Rasmus Wienberg <2wienbe@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
        Code to run wwwoffled as a specified uid/gid.

Andreas Dietrich <quasi@baccus.franken.de>
        Code to detach the program from the terminal like a *real* daemon.

Ullrich von Bassewitz <uz@wuschel.ibb.schwaben.com>
        Better handling of signals.
        Optimisation of the file handling in the outgoing directory.
        The log-level, max-servers and max-fetch-servers config options.

Tilman Bohn <tb@bohn.isdn.uni-heidelberg.de>
        Autodial mode.

Walter Pfannenmueller <pfn@online.de>
        Document parsing Java/VRML/XML some HTML.

Ben Winslow <rain@insane.loonybin.net>
        Configuration file DontGet section optional replacement Url.
        New FTP commands to get file size and modification time.

Ingo Kloecker <kloecker@math.u-bordeaux.fr>
        Disable animated GIFs.

David McNab <david@rebirthing.co.nz>
        Workaround winsock bug for cygwin.

Olaf Buddenhagen <olafbuddenhagen@web.de>
        A patch to do random sorting in the indexes.

Jan Lukoschus <jan+wof@lukoschus.de>
        The patch for wwwoffle-hash (for wwwoffle-tools).

Paul A. Rombouts <p.a.rombouts@home.nl>
        The patch to force re-requests of redirection URLs.
        The patch to allow wildcards to have more than two '*' characters.
        The patch to allow local CGI scripts to be run.

Marc Boucher <MarcB@box100.com>
        The patch to perform case insensitive matching of URL-SPECs.


And Other Useful Contributions From
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Too many people to mention - (everybody that e-mailed me).
        Suggestions and bug reports.
